## Basics

### Variables and operators

Firstly we write the "hello world" program of JS programming. It's a simple console.log("Hello World!"). This will be used in debugging our application and so on. JS files have the extension ".js" To add external JS files, we do \<script src = "path_to_file.js"\>\<\/script\>.

Variables are declared using the "let" keyword. To declare variables whose values can't be changed after initializing we use the "const" keyword \(which stands for "constant"\) i.e. const variable values can't be re-assigned. "var" keyword can also be used but it's no longer used as part of coding habits. "alert" keyword is used to create pop-ups with the alert msg. Technically we can assign values to variables without defining them \(i.e. without using thte let keyword\), but this is a bad praactice and to avoid this happening we need to put this on our script - "use strict"; . In JS numbers are always 64 bit floating point. "NaN" is a JS reserved word pointing to a number that's not legal i.e. Not a Number. "Infinity" or "-Infinity" is a keyword pointing to a number thats outside the largest possible number. Numbers are usually defined as primitiv values from literals, but they can also be defined as objects with "new" keyword. Comparing two JS objects will always return false. JS numbers are of the type "Number". There's another type called "BigInt" also but these are for very very large numbers and not used very often. A string holding a number value can be converted to a number value using the Number() constructor \(this might happen when we get form input as string\). There's also unary plus operator which acts like the Number() constructor i.e. +a and Number(a) do the same thing.

Node.Js is a JS runtime environment to run JS outside the web browser. nvm \(i.e. Node Version Manager\) and npm are two tools we can use to install and manage Node versions and libraries. Installed node latest long-term support version using nvm \(nvm install --lts\). We also need to tell nvm which version of node to use \(nvm use --lts\). npm is installed along with node. We can use "node" to get a console on terminal to edit and test JS code. To exit use the ".exit" command.

### Data Types
There are  8 basic data types in JS. JS is "dynamically typed" i.e. we don't need to mention the data type while creating the variable \(just like in Python\). Data types are:
1. Number
2. BigInt
3. String
4. Boolean
5. null
6. undefined
7. Object
8. Symbol

BigInt numbers are denoted by "n" at the end \(const bigInt = 1234567890123456789012345678901234567890n;\). These are used in cryptography, etc for numbers bigger than +-\(2^53\)-1 which is the largest value held by Number type. Strings are denoted by quotes. they can be double quotes ", single quotes ' or backticks \`. Single and double quotes work the same way but backticks are "extended functionality" quotes called template literal. They allow us to embed variables or expressions in strings by wrapping them in $\{...\} \(like `Hello, ${name}`\). Boolean can have only "true" or "false" as the value. null type is a special value holding nothing \(slightly different than None or nullptr which stand for pointing or reference to a non-existing object\). A variable is of undefined type if it's declared but not assigned any value. Object type is a default type assigned to any object to be created. symbol type is used to create unique identifiers for objects. The "typeof" operator command gives us the type of any variable in JS \(E.g : typeof 10n\).

Strings are concatenated using the "+" operator. With template literals we can write multi line strings. To convert a variable type to String, use the String() constructor \(just like we did in Number\(\)\). JS strings are immutable and so the existing string charachters cannot be changed individually. All string methods returna new string and don't modify the original string. String has several useful methods like length, charAt\(position\), at\(position\), concat\(\), slice\(start, end\), substr\(start, length\), toUpperCase(), toLowerCase(), trim(), replace(), replaceAll(), split(), etc. Going through docs helps to find whatever method we want.

Comparison operators include \<, \>,\<=, \>=, \==, \!=, etc. For string comparison, JS uses the lexicographical order. When comparing values of different data types, JS converts them to Numbers and then compares. There are 4 logical operators in JS i.e. OR \(||\), AND \(&&\), NOT \(!\) and Nullish Coalescing \(??\). A chain of  OR returns the first truthy value or the last value if no truthy is found i.e.
result = value1 || value2 || value3; then OR evaluates operands fromleft to right and then returns the first truth evaluated operand itself or the last operand if all evaluate as false. Similarly && finds the first faulty value from the left and returns that original operand. Precedence of && is greater than ||. NOT i.e. ! first converts the operand to a boolean value and then inverses it and returns that value. For conditionals situation in JS if...else if...else or switch is used. The syntax of if..else and switch is same as in c or cpp. One can also use the ternary or conditional operator to replace a single condition if else code snippet \(condition ? run this code : run this code instead \).

### Debugging using Dev tools
All the elements in a HTML page are part of a tree whose root starts at html and this tree is called DOM or Document Object Model. The DOM represents current page content while the HTML represents the page's original contents that is recieved from the server. In dev tools, we can change the content of any element by getting first the id number \(like $0\) and then pressing escape which opens the console and there you can manipulate it. E.g : $0.textContent = "Changed". To view the element node in object format we can use the dir() command \(like dir\($0\)\). The selected node has the == $0 symbol beside it, and this helps to reference the node in the console. document.querySelector() allows us o select an element in a page. The sources panel is where we debug JS. The sources panel has 3 parts i.e. Page tab which has the file tree \(every file that the page requests is here \), Code editor section and the Debugger section. Breakpoints option is found in the debugger section. Breakpoints allow us to avoid several console.log() calls to get values. Breakpoint lets us pause the code in the middle of its execution so that we can check the values at that moment in time. There are several types of breakpoints we can create in the dev tools and this will help uus in debugging. One can step into or step through code execution to see what exactly is happening line by line. Line-of-code breakpoints are the most common type of breakpoints which stops at a particular line of code we want to stop at. Just click on the line number to mark a breakpoint. The scope tab lets you see the variables. The watch tab lets you monitor the values of variables and JS expressions over time. We can also set Conditional breakpoints that are only triggered when the condition that you provide is true, Breakpoints on caught or uncaught exceptions, XHR breakpoints that are triggered when the requested URL matches a substring that you provide, etc. Using logpoint breakpoint we can permanently track any variables we want. Using "pause on caught exception" breakpoint etc we can pause exactly where the exception occurs and then we can view the call back tab to see which process called it and so on. There's something called DOM change breakpoint. This allows us to see when a DOM node is changed. There are several other breakpoints which can be used when time calls for them. There's also console.warn\(\) and console.error\(\), console.clear\(\) methods. To log any entity as a JSON i.e. showing it's attributes values, use console.dir\(\) method.

### Functions
